Updated the DTM release notes for 10.18 (#285)
SoftwareAG/c8y-releasenotes: content/release-10-18-0/digital-twin-manager-10-18-0-bundle/10-18-0-1.md

---
weight: 40
title: Release 10.18.0.1
layout: bundle
---

### Improvements

<div><table ><colgroup>
<col style="width: 70%;"><col style="width: 15%;"></colgroup>
<thead><tr>
<th>
Description</th>
<th>
Issue</th>
<th>
Build version</th>
</tr>
</thead><tbody>

<tr>

> <td>The columns "Child asset models" and "Asset properties" have been added to the table in the <b>Asset models</b> page.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>The columns **Child asset models** and **Asset properties** have been added to the table in the <b>Asset models</b> page.</td>
```

> <td>The columns **Child asset models** and **Asset properties** have been added to the table in the <b>Asset models</b> page.</td>

Reviewer 2: @MWindel How about the formatting of column names in the DTM documents? Are they formatted bold?

Author: Yes they are in Bold

Reviewer 2: @spau6 Then you must use <b> instead of **.

<td>CTM-431</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Users can see a preview of selected asset properties that will be imported.</td>
<td>CTM-581</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Users can now export the selected asset models from a tenant.</td>
<td>CTM-428</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Users can now export the selected asset properties from a tenant.</td>
<td>CTM-429</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Users can now import or export a maximum of 250 asset models and 500 asset properties.</td>
<td>CTM-454</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Users can now move the child assets to another asset which belongs to the same asset model.</td>
<td>CTM-491</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>A breadcrumb is shown for the <b>Asset model samples</b> page.</td>
<td>CTM-563</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>In the <b>Asset tree</b> tab, the count for the number of asset models has been removed.</td>
<td>CTM-559</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>In the <b>Asset tree</b> tab, a <b>Reload</b> button is now displayed.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>In the <b>Assets</b> tab, a <b>Reload</b> button is now displayed.</td>
```

Author: It is actually Asset tree tab

Author: ![image](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-releasenotes/assets/109800638/d5f9dab0-2a8b-4193-90d0-16bee05f3a00)

<td>CTM-555</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>The import assets layout has been modified to be in sync with other layouts.</td>
<td>CTM-550</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Localizations have been added for the <b>Subassets</b> page.</td>
<td>CTM-373</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Cell renderers have been added for child asset models and asset properties columns in the <b>Export Asset models</b> popup.</td>
<td>CTM-583</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>In the <b>Asset model</b> creation page, the <b>New asset property</b> button is always enabled and is by default assigned to the asset model after creation.</td>

Reviewer: @spau6 Does this entry refer to the **Asset properties** page and the **Add asset property** button?

Author: It is Asset Model creation page wherein we will associate a Asset property (which is already created) to that Asset model.
If the property is not created earlier then user can create it using Add asset property button available under property selection section

Author: ![image](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-releasenotes/assets/109800638/e38f9350-28ae-4d7e-b946-baf081c4c32f)

<td>CTM-309</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>A warning message is shown in the <b>Subassets</b> page when the associated asset model or property gets modified.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>A warning message is shown in the <b>Subassets</b> tab when the associated asset model or property gets modified.</td>
```

<td>CTM-321</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>A warning message is shown in the <b>Subassets</b> page when the associated asset model is deleted from the backend.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>A warning message is shown in the <b>Subassets</b> tab when the associated asset model is deleted from the backend.</td>
```

<td>CTM-333</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>A warning message is shown in the <b>Subassets</b> page when the associated asset property is deleted from the backend.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>A warning message is shown in the <b>Subassets</b> tab when the associated asset property is deleted from the backend.</td>
```

<td>CTM-338</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>DTM application name changed from <b>Digital Twin Manager</b> to <b>digital-twin-manager</b> in order to enable it as default subscribed application in Cumulocity.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>The DTM application name changed from "Digital Twin Manager" to "digital-twin-manager" in order to enable it as a default subscribed application in Cumulocity IoT.</td>
```

<td>CTM-504</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>A set of pre-defined Asset models are added under <b>Asset model samples</b> page which will make much easier for users to understand the concept of Asset models and starting to work with it.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>A set of pre-defined Asset models are added under <b>Asset model samples</b> tab which will makes it much easier for users to understand the concept of Asset models and starting to work with it.</td>
```

> <td>A set of pre-defined Asset models are added under <b>Asset model samples</b> tab which will makes it much easier for users to understand the concept of Asset models and starting to work with it.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>A set of pre-defined asset models is added under the <b>Asset model samples</b> tab which makes it much easier for users to understand the concept of asset models and starting to work with it.</td>
```

<td>CTM-483</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td><b>Subassets</b> page is implemented using plugin approach.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td><b>Subassets</b> tab is implemented using plugin approach.</td>
```

> <td><b>Subassets</b> tab is implemented using plugin approach.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>The <b>Subassets</b> tab is implemented using a plugin approach.</td>
```

<td>CTM-207</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>Assets move feature is applied with required CSS changes.</td>

Reviewer: @spau6 where can you find this feature in the UI?

Author: One has to select assets using the selection box  in the Assests page, then this option/Move will appear

Reviewer: @spau6 Is this a button, an icon or another type of UI feature?

Author: It is "Move selected" button, "help" button

<td>CTM-560</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>Roles and permissions implementation in DTM.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>Roles and permissions have been implemented in DTM.</td>
```

> <td>Roles based access to DTM entities has been implemented. </td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>Role-based access to DTM entities has been implemented. </td>
```

<td>CTM-649</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

</tbody></table></div>

### Fixes

<div><table ><colgroup>
<col style="width: 70%;"><col style="width: 15%;"></colgroup>
<thead><tr>
<th>
Description</th>
<th>
Issue</th>
<th>
Build version</th>
</tr>
</thead><tbody>

<tr>

> <td>A progress bar is shown during the processing of the file for <b>Import asset model</b>, <b>Import asset properties</b>, and <b>Asset model samples</b>.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>A progress bar is shown during the processing of the files for <b>Import asset model</b>, <b>Import asset properties</b>, and <b>Asset model samples</b>.</td>
```

<tr>
<td>Deselecting the child asset models after exporting the asset models is fixed. </td>
<td>CTM-576</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Modified the success messages that are shown while creating, updating, and deleting the <b>Asset properties</b>.</td>
<td>CTM-562</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>On clicking the <b>Reload</b> button in the <b>Asset tree</b> tab, the expanded asset hierarchy is completely closed now.</td>
<td>CTM-558</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Fixed CSS issues in the <b>Asset Models</b> page.</td>
<td>CTM-554</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Child asset models and asset properties are shown on expansion of the parent asset model in the <b>Export Asset Models</b> popup.</td>
<td>CTM-551</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>The issues observed in the <b>New asset</b> page are fixed.</td>
<td>CTM-544</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>The <b>Import asset properties</b> dialog box is shown on click of <b>Import asset properties</b>.</td>
<td>CTM-543</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td><b>Subassets</b> page now shows valid message if there are no assets/devices exists.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td><b>Subassets</b> tab now shows valid message if there are no assets/devices exists.</td>
```

> <td><b>Subassets</b> tab now shows valid message if there are no assets/devices exists.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>The <b>Subassets</b> tab now shows a valid message if no assets/devices exist.</td>
```

<td>CTM-368</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>Selection and pagination issues in <b>Assets</b> page is now handled.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>Selection and page navigation issues in <b>Assets</b> page is now handled.</td>
```

> <td>Selection and page navigation issues in <b>Assets</b> page is now handled.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>Selection and page navigation issues in the <b>Assets</b> page are now handled.</td>
```

<td>CTM-545</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td><b>Asset model samples</b> page is now added with loading symbol while loading the sample models.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td><b>Asset model samples</b> tab is now added with loading symbol while loading the sample models.</td>
```

> <td><b>Asset model samples</b> tab is now added with loading symbol while loading the sample models.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>The <b>Asset model samples</b> tab is now added with a loading symbol while loading the sample models.</td>
```

<td>CTM-579</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>Assets move popup is implemented with pagination and search functionality.</td>

Reviewer: @spau6 Can you provide a screenshot of the dialog window?

Author: ![image](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-releasenotes/assets/109800638/e44e3286-4e9a-4022-ab6d-19a8e43bf5ca)

Author: Please find the uploaded image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>The <b>Move assets</b> dialog window is implemented with pagination and search functionality.</td>
```

<td>CTM-612</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>Asset move popup now displays a valid message when no assets exist.</td>

Reviewer: @spau6 see above

Author: added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>The <b>Move assets</b> dialog window now displays a valid message when no assets exist.</td>
```

<td>CTM-637</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>Assets move popup now shows all possible instances of assets where assets can be moved.</td>

Reviewer: @spau6 see above

Author: added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>The <b>Move assets</b> dialog window now shows all possible instances of assets where assets can be moved.</td>
```

<td>CTM-645</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Duplicate name validation is handled in Assets move.</td>
<td>CTM-647</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>Handled the unexpected error message when user cancels the delete operation in Asset models/Asset properties page.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>Handled the unexpected error message when user cancels the delete operation in **Asset models** and **Asset properties** page.</td>
```

> <td>Handled the unexpected error message when user cancels the delete operation in **Asset models** and **Asset properties** page.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>Handled the unexpected error message when a user cancels the delete operation in the **Asset models** and **Asset properties** page.</td>
```

> <td>Handled the unexpected error message when a user cancels the delete operation in the **Asset models** and **Asset properties** page.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>Handled the unexpected error message when a user cancels the delete operation in the <b>Asset models</b> and <b>Asset properties</b> page.</td>
```

<td>CTM-694</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>Exporting the asset models having multiple properties is now supported.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>Exporting asset models having multiple properties is now supported.</td>
```

<td>CTM-698</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Importing of complex asset property is now possible in both <b>Import asset models</b> and <b>Import asset properties</b>.</td>
<td>CTM-699</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td><b>Subassets</b> page now displays complex property label.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td><b>Subassets</b> tab now displays complex property label.</td>
```

> <td><b>Subassets</b> tab now displays complex property label.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>The <b>Subassets</b> tab now displays a complex property label.</td>
```

<td>CTM-686</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td><b>Import asset properties</b> preview windows now display a message when no record exists also reload button is removed.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>The <b>Import asset properties</b> preview windows now display a message when no record exists. Moreover, the reload button has been removed.</td>
```

> <td>The <b>Import asset properties</b> preview windows now display a message when no record exists. Moreover, the reload button has been removed.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>The <b>Import asset properties</b> preview windows now display a message when no record exists. Moreover, the <b>Reload</b> button has been removed.</td>
```

<td>CTM-685</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Lengthier column names are handled by adding ellipses.</td>
<td>CTM-659</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>Handled the run time exceptions during Asset creation.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<td>Handled the run time exceptions during asset creation.</td>
```

<td>CTM-662</td>
<td>1018.0.1.202307111702-7614b35</td>
</tr>

<tr>

> <td>Handled the run time exceptions for Asset models and Asset properties.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>Handled the run time exceptions for asset models and asset properties.</td>
```

</tr>

<tr>

> <td>Roles and permissions have been implemented in DTM.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<td>Roles based access to DTM entities has been implemented. </td>
```
